DOC Document filesystem performance improvements (#737)
silverstripe/developer-docs: en/08_Changelogs/6.1.0.md

## Overview

- [Features and enhancements](#features-and-enhancements)
  - [Performance improvements](#performance-improvements)
  - [Non-blocking file-based sessions](#non-blocking-sessions)
  - [Other new features](#other-new-features)
- [API changes](#api-changes)
- [Bug fixes](#bug-fixes)

## Features and enhancements

### Performance improvements

> Development of this release was focused largely on improving performance. Some improvements were safe to include in patch releases, so were included in patches to Silverstripe CMS 5.4 and merged up, while others required adding new API or had an increased risk of regressions so were only included in this release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Development of this release was focused largely on improving performance.
```

It's confusing talking about prior releases. People will wonder why these weren't just mentioned in prior changelogs (obviously you can't since they're patch releases, though unless you're very used to semver releases like we are people can easily misunderstand this). I'm not sure if any of the 5.4 performance related improvements are even really worth talking about.

Reviewer 2: I think it's worth keeping but I don't have the energy to argue about it, so I'll remove it.

#### Improved performance working with assets {#filesystem-performance}

> In projects with thousands of files in the same folder, especially with images, performance can be slow for some operations. That performance hit scales with the number of files in the folder you're looking at. One reason for this is that [Flysystem](https://flysystem.thephpleague.com/docs/) (the filesystem abstraction layer) can't rely on the service it's interfacing with having a way to discover if a folder is empty, or find files matching a certain pattern. This means that any time we needed to do either of those, we had to loop over data for every file in the folder we're interested in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In projects with thousands of files in the same folder, especially with images with multiple variants, performance can be slow for some operations. That performance hit scales with the number of files in the folder. One reason for this is that [Flysystem](https://flysystem.thephpleague.com/docs/) (the filesystem abstraction layer) can't assume the filesystem it's interfacing with has a way to discover if a folder is empty, or find files in a folder matching a certain pattern. This means that any time either of those operations was performed on a folder, Flysystem had to loop over every file it contained.
```

Reviewer 2: Changed "folder you're looking at" to "folder you're dealing with" because just ending the sentence at "files in the folder" makes my brain go "which folder, though?"

Made all the other changes.

To remedy this, we've made the following changes:

- Reduced the number of times we check if a folder is empty by removing duplicate checks.
- Added [`Filesystem::isEmpty()`](api:SilverStripe\Assets\Flysystem\Filesystem::isEmpty()) to check if a folder is empty. With the default local filesystem adapter, this means we check exactly one file to know if the folder is empty or not. With other adapters it depends on the implementation (e.g. the AWS S3 adapter will likely still fetch a full page of up to 1000 files).
- Added [`GlobContentLister`](api:SilverStripe\Assets\Flysystem\GlobContentLister) and [`GlobbableFileIDHelper`](api:SilverStripe\Assets\FilenameParsing\GlobbableFileIDHelper) interfaces to enable looking for image variants using a glob pattern. This dramatically improves performance with the default local filesystem adapter, but by default will have no effect for other adapters.

>     If you are using a different adapter that might support globbing such as using FTP (for specific FTP servers), consider implementing the `GlobContentLister` interface.

Reviewer: Using FTP as a filesystem? For a Silverstripe install? That seems very strange, is there a different example you could give that's a little more standard?

Reviewer 2: The official adapters are:

- Local
- FTP
- InMemory
- Read-Only
- Path Prefixing
- AWS S3
- AsyncAws S3
- Azure Blob Storage
- Google Cloud Storage
- MongoDB GridFS
- SFTP (V2)
- SFTP (V3)
- WebDAV
- ZipArchive

If another of those stands out as a better example which can support glob pattern matching I'll be happy to swap it out. I think SFTP can handle glob pattern matching.
